Have you ever said anything that you wish you could take it back?

You regretted that you said it?

Have you ever done something that you regret that you did it, and you wish you could take it back, and make a new experience.

Have you ever started working on a project?

And it seems that everything goes wrong?

I did that a couple of times. in today's presentation we are going to take a careful look about what it means to make a new start with God.

We are going to explore what it means to be born again and how to live in the spirit.

A number of years ago a Christian evangelist held a series of evangelistic meetings in Moscow in the Kremlin auditorium.

Anybody knows what Kremlin stands for?

Yeah.

It was like the presidential palace of Russia, the place where all the communist meetings were held.

And to the amazement of the world, where the Communist Party was holding their meetings after the fall of Russia, the Christian evangelistic meetings were held.

It was an amazing revolution that took place.

And after one of the meetings, the evangelist was seated in his little office when the door suddenly flung open.

A tough-looking young man with a scruffy beard and rough appearance came bursting into the room.

Believing that he was going to be attacked, the evangelist stood up and was waiting to see what was going to happen.

Not knowing what was going to happen, the Russian translator stood and went between them.

And after the initial attention drained from the room, the translator informed that the man was one of the most notorious criminals in Moscow.

He had been in and out of jail 28 times.

Filled with guilt and hopeless about his future, He longed for to find peace.

The evangelist calmly read to him 1 John 1.9.

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins.

He told the troubled man the story of the thief on the cross who found forgiveness.

He assured him that Jesus is the same Savior today.

He offers forgiveness.

He offers deliverance.

He offers salvation.

Take it.

Rejoice in it.

Praise God for it.

With tears running down his face, this guilty young Russian knelt and received God's forgiveness.

About a year later, the same evangelist visited Moscow again.

As he praised God with a group of believers in a newly formed church, He noticed the converted criminal singing in the choir.

Imagine the transformation that took place in his heart.

The man's face revealed a new inner peace.

He radiated with happiness.

He had accepted Jesus.

The teachings of the Bible had transformed his life, and he had followed Jesus' example and was baptized.

It was evident that his sins were forgiven, and he was enjoying the abundant life that God desired for each one of us to enjoy.

Bible baptism is a symbol of life transformed by God's grace.

Baptism testifies to the beginning of a new life in Jesus Christ.

Baptism speaks of a transformed life.

One of the most powerful examples of dramatic change Christ can make in life is the story of Saul, who later on became the Apostle Paul.

Saul, as you know, was a Roman citizen by birth.

He was educated by the best teachers in Jerusalem.

He was a zealot for the Jewish religion and was recognized as a staunch defender of the faith.

Saul, better known as Paul, his Christian name describes what he did to put an end to the Christians.

I persecuted to death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women, and went to Damascus to bring in chains even those who were there to Jerusalem to be punished.

As he was on his way to Damascus, a bright light shone out of heaven and struck him to the ground, And he had a voice saying, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?

And he answered, Who are you, Lord?

He didn't know.

And the voice answered, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.

Unsure of what to do next, the now humble Pharisee asked, What shall I do, Lord?

And the Lord said, Arise and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all things which are appointed for you to do.

Did you catch that word, appointed?

the Lord already had a plan for his life blinded by the bright light which he had seen Saul had to be led to a house in Damascus for three days he had time to think about the suffering that he caused the people of God he thought about his hatred for Jesus and for his followers and for their claim that he had risen from the dead.

He just couldn't understand that.

Then he said, the God of our fathers has chosen you that you should know his will and see the just one and hear the voice of his mouth. for you will be his witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.

What did he see and what did he hear?

He heard the Lord Jesus Christ.

So what was he supposed to say and to do?

to be an eyewitness to the Lord Jesus Christ.

Then in order for Saul to go forward in his life and shut the door on his past, Ananias said to Saul, and now, why are you waiting?

Arise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord.

Saul needed to make a new start he needed to be washed clean from the terrible things he had done he needed God's amazing grace and forgiveness God's love had reached him where he was but God's love would not leave him where he was baptism was the doorway to a new life for Saul.

When he was baptized, he knew that God had forgiven him.

And Saul, the persecutor, became Paul, the evangelist for Jesus all the rest of his life.

Have you ever wished you could start all over again?

And that all of your mistakes you had made in the past could be washed away?

Is anybody here who feels that need today?

God knew that we needed just such an experience.

He gave us baptism as a symbol of a new start, a new life in Jesus.

Christian baptism has its roots in the ministry of John the Baptist. a vigorous prophet who appeared in the wilderness of Judea, boldly preaching repentance.

The roads leading to the Jordan River were crowded with people going to listen to him.

The Bible says, Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around Jordan went out to him, and were baptized by him in Jordan, confessing their sins.

Meanwhile, in Nazareth, Jesus closed his shop, closed the door to his carpenter shop and told his mother goodbye.

He joined the crowd, making their way to Jordan.

When John caught sight of Jesus, he recognized him and stopped preaching. and what did John the Baptist do pointing to Jesus he said behold the Lamb of God who does what who takes away the sins of the world how much of the world the whole world it didn't say the sins of Judea the sins of the people of God, the sins of the whole world.

When Jesus asked John to baptize him, John hesitated.

He said, excuse me, I need to be baptized by you.

What did John say?

I need to be baptized by you.

How many of us need to be baptized by Jesus?

Amen.

But Jesus insisted, permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.

John recognized that Jesus had no sinful past to put behind him.

But Jesus asked to be baptized because as the Savior, he wants to leave a perfect example for us to follow.

When he had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately out of the water.

And behold, the heavens were opened and he saw the what?

The Spirit of God descending how?

Like a dove and alighting on him.

That's a very interesting expression.

Something happened in that moment in the Lord Jesus Christ when the Holy Spirit alighted on him.

Not just that projected light on him, but empowered him anointed him for the work of ministry for the work of salvation of the world and suddenly a voice came from heaven saying this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased as Jesus walked out of the water and stood with the dripping clothes on the muddy banks of Jordan God publicly acknowledged Jesus as the Messiah, the Anointed One.

This marked the beginning of Christ's public ministry.

For Peter said that at his baptism, God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil.

For God was with him.

Are people oppressed by the devil today?

Do we need Jesus today?

Baptism became a practice of the followers of Jesus after that for all of them.

Though Jesus himself did not baptize, the Bible records that his disciples did.

The Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John.

The jealousy started between the two groups.

Though Jesus himself did not baptize but his disciples.

And ever after Jesus' earthly ministry drew to a close, he still expected his followers to continue this practice.

Matthew records the last instruction given by Christ before he went to heaven.

Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.

And what else?

Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you.

And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.

Is Jesus still with us?

Yes.

The New Testament church obediently followed their Savior's instruction.

Some thousands were baptized in a single day.

The question is, and this is the big thing in Christianity today, how the baptism took place. by what mode of baptism did Jesus followers Jesus followers practice after he returned to heaven no doubt they followed Jesus example since they were his disciples and Paul's Paul says it this way there is only one Lord one faith How many lords?

One lord.

How many faith?

One faith.

How many baptisms?

In our presentation, we are going to make reference to some other kinds of baptisms, and that's very important.

The only detailed account of baptism after the cross is recorded in the book of Acts.

Philip, the evangelist, conducted it.

As Philip was walking down the dusty road of Gaza, the same Gaza that is in trouble today, he saw the Ethiopian treasurer of Queen Candace, who had the charge over all her treasury.

He was the money man. he had come to Jerusalem to worship now he was on his way home riding in a chariot and reading from a scroll and Philip ran over and asked him do you understand what you are reading?

he said, how can I unless some guides me and he invited Philip to join him in the chariot and he started and explained to him because he was reading Isaiah chapter 53 and the Ethiopian invited Philip to explain it to him then Philip opened his mouth the Bible says and beginning at this scripture preached Jesus to him can we start preaching Jesus from the Old Testament from every part of the Old Testament, we can start preaching Jesus.

Because all the prophecies that were made about Jesus are found in the Old Testament.

What a Bible study that must have been.

Bouncing along in that chariot.

And not only did Philip tell about Jesus, But he must have explained the significance of baptism.

And the Bible says that when they came to a pool of water, the Ethiopian said to Philip, See, here is water.

What hinders me from being baptized?

How did he receive the baptism?

Then Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, you may.

And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.

So he commanded the chariot to stand still, and both Philip and the eunuch went down in the water.

Where?

In the water, and he baptized him.

Do you see Philip sprinkling water on the eunuch?

No.

Philip actually took him down in the water and put him under the water.

Philip immersed the Ethiopian treasure in the water just as John immersed Jesus Christ and he was baptized.

Now, when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away and he went on his way rejoicing.

And this is what happens after we meet Jesus and we surrender our life to him.

We can go away rejoicing because we start a new life in the Lord Jesus Christ.

It is very clear that the immersion was the mode of baptism practiced by the early church Christian.

And there are many churches, old churches, that have the baptistry built in.

When we visited Jerusalem, yeah, Israel, We stayed in Turkey.

We visited the big Tahagya church.

And even there, there was a nice baptistry.

Untouched.

That shows that the church for many centuries, actually it is up until the 12th century, the baptism was practiced by immersion. most people have heard of the old bell tower in front of the cathedral of Pisa in Italy known as the leading tower of Pisa on the other end of the cathedral is a baptistry a round building that encloses a pool about 20 feet across and four feet deep that was built in the 14th century.

More than 1,300 years after Christ, the mode of baptism in this part of Italy was still by immersion. 66 of such baptismal pools are found in Italy alone.

So what does this show?

That the practice that is being done today is not biblical.

So how did other forms of baptism become accepted in the Christian church?

Cardinal James Gibson wrote, For several centuries after the establishment of Christianity, Baptism was usually conferred by immersion.

So history testifies to the fact that baptism was done by immersion.

But since the 12th century, the practice of baptizing by infusion has prevailed in the Catholic Church.

Where?

In the Catholic Church.

And this manner is attended with less inconvenience than baptism by immersion.

What was the reason for changing the way of baptism?

Out of convenience.

The priest with his big robes didn't want to get wet.

And after that, to have to change and put new clothes and to get aggravated with that.

The church exercises her description in adopting the most convenient mode.

Did you hear the claim?

The church exercises her description in adopting the most convenient mode.

According to the circumstances of time and place.

Note that convenience and tradition are behind the alternate forms of baptism. the word of God never suggests any other forms of baptism than that practiced by John the Baptist and the followers of Jesus there might be nothing wrong with the sprinkling water on a baby but it just simply isn't baptism according to the Bible in fact the Greek word baptized means to dip under the water.

The word baptism.

This is the only method that can represent the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus.

Actually, this morning I was thinking that some people, when I baptize them, I have to keep them underwater a little bit longer.

Until they experience, until they make a near-death experience.

So when I get them back up, they are reborn both physically and spiritually.

And hopefully, that baptism will stick.

Because for some people, it doesn't stick.

Paul said, or do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?

Don't worry, I'm not going to do any of that to any of you.

Therefore, we were buried with him through baptism into his death.

But Jesus didn't stay in the grave.

He came forth victorious.

When we are baptized, our old person, the old man or woman, the life was used to live is buried.

And then we rise to live a new life.

That just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in the newness of life.

Coming out of the water symbolizes the resurrection of the new person.

New life through the power of the Holy Spirit.

But how important is baptism?

Is it really necessary to be baptized?

One night a Jewish leader by the name of Nicodemus came secretly to talk to Jesus.

He flattered Jesus by saying, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God.

He wanted to make Jesus feel good about himself.

But Jesus didn't want to have any of that.

For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.

Jesus could read this man's heart, so he got right to the point. and he began to show Nicodemus what he needed.

Jesus answered and said, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven.

Imagine the disappointment that Nicodemus experienced.

He was so puzzled and he asked Jesus, How can a man be born when he is old?

Can he enter a second time in his mother's womb and be born?

It is a rhetorical question because that's not possible.

And that was not the point.

But Jesus made it clear that he was talking about a spiritual rebirth.

Then he said, Most assuredly I say to you, Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.

Here Jesus is speaking of a spiritual rebirth that is expressed through baptism.

No doubt Nicodemus, a proud Pharisee, anticipated the entrance into the kingdom of God based on what he was living, based on his experience. he did not expect any of this however Jesus made it very clear to him that he needed a new life a new spiritual life he needed the baptism of the Holy Spirit as represented by baptism and Christ did not only make this solemn statement to Nicodemus notice He says essentially the same thing in Mark 16, verse 16.

He who believes and is baptized will be saved.

So, is baptism necessary?

So, the first step in preparing for Bible baptism is believing in Jesus.

Then, believing in Jesus that he died for your sins and is your Savior and Lord.

When he asked to be baptized, Philip told the Ethiopian the same thing.

If you believe with all your heart, you may.

In other words, do you believe in Jesus with all your heart?

And he had to say what he believed in his heart.

Jesus gave his disciples a second prerequisite for baptism go therefore and make disciples of all nations baptizing them to make a disciple means to teach them by word and example and this precedes baptism as well Jesus said that the baptismal candidate is to be taught to observe all things that I have commanded you.

In other words, an individual preparing for the sacred rite of baptism needs to understand Jesus' teaching and accept them.

But this isn't just a matter of accepting a set of doctrines or teachings.

It's a commitment of one's life to Christ. did you catch the word?

a commitment there are people who are baptized in the church they come through this door and they go through that door what is the reason for that?

they they were not committed to Christ they find excuses there are many excuses.

This man or this woman look at me this way instead of this way.

Didn't smile to me.

There are too many hypocrites in the church.

Didn't stand up when I passed by.

There are many excuses.

But what is the real reason?

They are not committed. this turning of life into a new direction we sometimes call repentance repent therefore and be converted that your sins may be blotted out repentance is the result of our heart being touched by and softened by God's love that was demonstrated by Jesus on the cross of Calvary so before baptism the person should accept Jesus as their personal savior second before baptism the person should understand the teachings of Jesus and be willing to follow him third before baptism the person should confess his or her sins and repent demonstrating a new direction in their life.

By following these three steps in preparation for baptism, you may truly become a new person from the inside out.

Through God's power, you can be changed, you can be reborn, and start new.

Sometimes people ask, Why am I baptized?

I'm sorry.

When I am baptized, do I become a part of a church?

Or am I only baptized into faith in Jesus?

You know, a lot of people today are making very bold statements.

I don't need a church.

The church is full of hypocrites.

I just need Jesus. is this what the Bible teaches the Bible teaches that baptism into Christ is baptism into Christ's body the church when multitudes were baptized on the day of Pentecost the Bible declares then those who gladly received his word were baptized and that day about 3,000 souls were added to them and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and the breaking of bread and prayers.

Those baptized in Acts continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship.

What is a fellowship?

The church, the communion, the community of the believers.

They became part of God's Bible-believing church.

Paul also reminds the church of Corinth, for by one spirit we were all baptized into one body.

Huh.

We are baptized into one body.

Verse 28 of the same chapter points out clearly that the body is the church.

When men and women accept Jesus and commit their lives to follow him, they wish to worship with fellow believers.

Why are you here?

Because you wish to worship with fellow believers.

You want to be part of the body of Christ.

Baptism is a public expression of love and commitment to our Savior.

One time, Paul and his co-worker Silas went to the city of Philippi and preached the message of Jesus.

As a result of their ministry, the city became so agitated that a mob gathered and attacked them, tearing off their clothes.

The authorities were complicit in this violence and had them beaten and taken to prison.

The jailer was instructed to put them securely in the confinement and to make sure that they did not escape.

But these missionaries didn't get discouraged.

So what happened?

They knew God and they trusted God.

They knew that God was with them.

They knew that he still had a plan for them.

And that his love could conquer the hatred and the bigotry of those who persecuted them.

And we know the story.

At midnight, Paul and Silas were whining and complaining and cursing. they were praying and singing when suddenly an earthquake shook the prison wall immediately the doors of the prison were opened and everyone's chains fell off and we are told that the keeper of the prison was ready to take his own life because he believed that everybody escaped He was in deep trouble.

But this time, it was a different situation.

Paul called with a loud voice saying, Do yourself no harm, for we are all here.

And you can imagine the astonishment of the jailer.

And these men, Paul and Silas, had suffered agony at the hands of the jailer. yet they had no resentment and wanted no revenge.

How would we react in this situation?

Who would we call?

The Human Rights Committee, the senator, the congressman, the religious liberty organization.

We would petition the government and all this.

Do you notice?

They didn't do any of this.

He ran and got a light and returned to their cell.

And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?

So the apostle answered the classic answer.

There is no answer.

No other answer.

Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household.

The jailer took Paul and Silas to his house.

Where?

To his house.

And bathed their bleeding bags.

Wow, imagine that.

And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes.

And immediately his family was baptized.

Today, the Lord Jesus Christ is appealing to all of us to commit our life to him.

He is asking us to consider how he has demonstrated his love to you on Calvary's cross.

He wants your heart to be touched with his patience and goodness to you by his desire to save you and to have you in his kingdom.

He appeals to each one of us to become part of the Bible-believing, commandment-keeping people.

He gives you the same invitation Ananias gave to the Apostle Paul.

Why are Rise and be baptized and wash your sins.

Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for the knowledge of your word, for the truth of baptism.

We thank you for the example of the Lord Jesus Christ.

And Father, we thank you for the invitation to surrender our hearts to you, our lives to you.

Father, I ask you to bless everyone that made a commitment today to surrender their life through baptism, through re-baptism, or to prepare for baptism, and to surrender, to recommit their life to a new beginning in a new relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ.

Father, I ask you to touch each one of them.

I ask you to strengthen them.

I ask you to lead them through the power of the Holy Spirit.

And I ask you to help them to submit their life to you.

And to have a committed life.

That no matter what happens in this life.

In this world.

In this wicked world.

We will never leave you.

And we will never join any other philosophy.

Or any other creed. or anything that can throw us out of the true way.

Please, Father, bless each one of us with your presence.

Fill us with the power of the Holy Spirit.

And, Father, as we depart from the sanctuary, but never from your presence, we ask you to bless the food that is prepared, and strengthen our bodies, and accept our gratitude.

And we thank you for everything.

In Jesus' name, amen.